== land-boards FPGA Multicomp Retro-Computers ==

* These are the VHDL files for our implementation of [http://searle.hostei.com/grant/Multicomp/index.html Grant Searle's Multicomp] Retro-Computer.
** Grant's projects re-create late 1970's and early 1980's era vintage computers using inexpensive FPGA cards.
* Our [http://land-boards.com/blwiki/index.php?title=RetroComputing RetroComputing Wiki page is here].

=== FPGA Boards ===

The different folders here reflect the hardware that we have got Multicomp running on. Some of these designs are Land Boards and others are based on commercial products.

* [http://land-boards.com/blwiki/index.php?title=EP2C5-DB Land Boards EP2C5-DB FPGA Retro-Computer card]
** Duplicates Grant's design down to the pin maps
* [http://land-boards.com/blwiki/index.php?title=BASE-EP4CE6 Land Boards BASE-EP4CE6 card] is a breakout board that cables up to the [http://land-boards.com/blwiki/index.php?title=EP2C5-DB Land Boards EP2C5-DB card]
** Adds extra logic and RAM resources beyond the EP2C5 FPGA
*** Can do up to 16K of Internal SRAM
** [http://land-boards.com/blwiki/index.php?title=Retro-Computer_Map_EP2_to_EP4_card Wiring is here]
* [http://land-boards.com/blwiki/index.php?title=Cyclone_IV_FPGA_EP4CE6E22C8N_Development_Board_USB_V2 Purchased EP4 FPGA card]
** Includes VGA, PS/2 and USB-Serial converter
** Other I/O is serious limitation but a 16K retro machine without SD Card storage can easily be built
* [http://land-boards.com/blwiki/index.php?title=RETRO-EP4CE6 Land Boards RETRO-EP4 design]
** 512K Fast SRAM
** FTDI USB-to-Serial Interface with Hardware Handshake
** 6-bit (3/3/3) VGA
** PS/2 connector
** 5V Power Module
** Lot of I/O connections


== Other Sites ==

* [https://www.retrobrewcomputers.org/doku.php?id=boards:sbc:multicomp:start Retrobrewing Multicomp forum] - covers Neal Crooks's 6809 based extensions as well as various hardware builds
* [https://github.com/nealcrook/multicomp6809 Neal Crook's page is here]

== Ownership ==

* Some of these files such as FPGA designs and software libraries were created by others.
** There may be newer versions of these libraries "out there".
** Some libraries even have the same names but don't work the same.
* Many of these files were created by me based on the work of others.

=== Warning ===

* Use at your own risk.
** If you brick your part or it melt to a puddle, it's on you not me.
