== Multicomp FPGA (VHDL Template) VGA ==

Interface mimics ACIA software interface address/control/status contents

* [http://www.swtpc.com/mholley/Notebook/Hardware_ACIA.pdf ACIA datasheet]

== Programming Interface ==

* Two addresses, Control/status and data access

=== Status Register ===

* Register Select = 0
* Read/Write = Read
** d0 = RDRF	= Receive Data Register Full (1 = data is ready to read)
** d1 = TDRE	= Transmit Data Register Empty (1 = transmit is ready to send out data)
** d2 = DCD		= Data Carrier Detect (0 = carrier present - hardwired)
** d3 = CTS		= Clear to Send (0 = Clear to Send - ready to accept data - hardwired)
** d7 = IRQ		= Interrupt Request (1 = Interrupt present)

===  Control Register ===

* Register Select = 0
* Read/Write = Write
** d1,d0		= Control (11 = Master Reset)
** d6,d5		= TC = Transmitter Control (RTS = Transmitter Interrupt Enable/Disable)
** d7 		= Interrupt Enable (1=enable interrupts)

=== Data Register ===

* Register Select = 1
** Read = Read data from the data register (not implemented due to kbd removal)
** Write = Write data to the data register

== Acknowledgments ==

These files are from [https://github.com/nealcrook/multicomp6809/tree/master/multicomp/Components/TERMINAL Neal Crook's port of the VHDL code to support VGA files] (as snagged 2019-04-08) for [http://searle.hostei.com/grant/Multicomp/index.html Grant Searle's Multicomp] Retro-Computer. [https://github.com/nealcrook/multicomp6809/wiki/VDU-Modifications Neal describes the enhancements here].

Grant's projects re-create late 1970's and early 1980's era vintage computers using inexpensive FPGA cards. The various parts that make up retro-computers are in each of the folders.

Our [http://land-boards.com/blwiki/index.php?title=RetroComputing RetroComputing Wiki page is here].

== Ownership ==

* Some of these files such as FPGA designs and software libraries were created by others.
** There may be newer versions of these libraries "out there".
** Some libraries even have the same names but don't work the same.
* Many of these files were created by me based on the work of others.

=== Warning ===

* Use at your own risk.
** If you brick your part or it melt to a puddle, it's on you not me.
