== Introduction ==

Original work - [https://retrobrewcomputers.org/doku.php?id=builderpages:muellerk:start Another Build - Multicomp Z80 with b/w Graphics] - by muellerk]

The graphics expansion consists of two parts, the modified multicomp-z80 VHDL-code and [https://github.com/douggilliland/MultiComp/tree/master/MultiComp_On_RETRO-EP4CE15/multicomp-z80_vhdl_3xtty_1xvga/multicomp-z80_xgraph an RSX-package, that holds the needed software to handle the graphic output (dots, lines etc., bitmaps and text)]. Incl. are also several demo programs which I used to create the shown screenshots.

== Some general parameters ==

* ASCII-Display is 80×30 (Col. * Row)
* Graphic-Display is 640x240px Black & White, no Attribute-RAM
* Fully programmable Font-ROM
* ASCII-Cursor ON/OFF via Port access
* RSX-Module (as binary) with basic functions for text, line graphics, bitmaps (only b/w bitmaps, size up to screen size) and Font-ROM access
* Files with C-functions to communicate with the RSX and handle the graphics in user programs.
* Several ready to run binaries (5 demos) and beside that some com's for graphic-screen clearing, graphic-screen ON/OFF and font-exchange (!)

== Build Information ==

This build uses the [http://land-boards.com/blwiki/index.php?title=RETRO-EP4CE15 RETRO-EP4CE15], a USB Blaster for the FPGA-chip, the ready-to-use ALTERA-Quartus2 V20.1 software for programming. All c-/asm-source and binary files are included. For assembling/recompiling you need the M80 Assembler and the [https://github.com/douggilliland/Retro-Computers/tree/master/Z80/Software/mescc MESCC C-Compiler system from Github]. Instructions how to do both steps is described in [https://github.com/douggilliland/MultiComp/blob/master/MultiComp_On_RETRO-EP4CE15/multicomp-z80_vhdl_3xtty_1xvga/multicomp-z80_xgraph/xgraph.txt 'xgraph.txt'] included in the 'Multcomp-Z80_xgraph-*.tar.gz' package.

== Builder's Notes/Comments ==

For programming the RSX I used the package from Miguel I. Garcia Lopez as a example/guideline for building my own RSX and C-function files. The Multicomp VHDL-Code incl. the CP/M software I've got from here in the forum. The PCB and the Mini-FPGA-Board can be found here in the forum wiki.

The package has reached it's planned basic functionality now. The Reference-Manual, describing the C-functions and the RSX is done.
